Note design constraints on hypothetical `DynSized` (#166)
rust-lang/lang-team: src/design_notes/dynsized_constraints.md

At the time of writing, there is weak approval from T-lang to proceed with an internal-only version of `DynSized`
which is used to prohibit the use of `extern type` in standard `<T: ?Sized>` generic arguments \[2].

This design document is about the restrictions on what `T: ?Sized + DynSized` actually needs to imply.

## Design Constraints

### `Arc` and `Weak`

`Arc` supports "zombie" references, where all strong `Arc` and the pointee have been dropped,
but `Weak` handles still exist and so the allocation still exists.
This means that `Weak` needs to be able to determine the layout of the allocation from a dropped pointee.

In addition, `Weak` are pointers to the *reference count* part of the `ArcInner` allocation,
and thus need to *statically* know the alignment of the pointee type to determine the offset
(it cannot call `align_of_val_raw` without first knowing the offset).

For the alignment, there are three potential resolutions:

- Store layout information in the `ArcInner` header,
- Require that alignment be determined solely from pointee metadata, or
- Change the pointer of `Arc<T>` to point directly at `T` and use a fixed negative offset for the header.

> For the both, there are three potential resolutions:

Reviewer: "For the both"?

Reviewer: Ah, maybe it was "for *them* both"?

- Store layout information in the `ArcInner` header, or
- Require that layout be determined solely from pointee metadata, or

> - Require that layout be determinable from a dropped pointee.

Reviewer: I have no idea how this could be done -- are these bullets just a duplication of the bullets above?

Reviewer: Reading on, I guess I understand, I feel like this could be clarified:

```suggestion
- Require that layout be determinable from a dropped pointee. This is needed because a `Weak` ref holds a reference to the allocation, even when the content may have been dropped. One way to achieve this is to have the layout be stored in the metadata of the wide pointer; another would be to ensure that drop does not overwrite the fields storing the layout information (e.g., a thin pointer with an inline vtable would still have the vtable even if the contents are dropped).
```

Author: I restructured that section a bit to hopefully make this clearer before reading the rest, and put some of this context in a footnote; hopefully that should be sufficient.

In theory, the above paragraph should be what illustrates the need for determining layout after dropping `T`.

`extern type` would not implement `DynSized`, and generic code could opt into `?DynSized` types to support such.

At the time of writing, there is weak approval from T-lang to proceed with an internal-only version of `DynSized`
which is used to prohibit the use of `extern type` in standard `<T: ?Sized>` generic arguments \[2].

This design document is about the restrictions on what `T: ?Sized + DynSized` actually needs to imply.

## Design Constraints

### `Arc` and `Weak`

`Arc` supports "zombie" references, where all strong `Arc` and the pointee have been dropped,
but `Weak` handles still exist and so the allocation still exists.
This means that `Weak` needs to be able to determine the layout of the allocation from a dropped pointee,
as the `T` is dropped with the last `Arc` but the allocation freed with the last `Weak`.

In addition, `Weak` are pointers to the *reference count* part of the `ArcInner` allocation,
and thus need to *statically* know the alignment of the pointee type to determine the offset
(it cannot call `align_of_val_raw` without first knowing the offset).

> There are three potential resolutions that handle both size and alignment uniformly:
> 
> - Store layout information in the `ArcInner` header, or
> - Require that layout be determined solely from pointee metadata, or
> - Require that layout be determinable from a dropped pointee.[^why]

Author: There's actually one more strategy I just remembered: in short

```rust
struct ArcInner<T> {
    counts: ArcRefCounts,
    union {
        data: T,
        layout: Layout,
    },
}
```

as after the `T` is dropped the space could be reused to store a layout calculated before dropping the `T`. This is an overly clever solution that's probably horrible for performance, though, so the only real reason to include it here is completeness.

If we want to, suggested wording would be:

```suggestion
There are four potential resolutions that handle both size and alignment uniformly:

- Store layout information in the `ArcInner` header, or
- Store layout information in `T`'s space after it's been dropped, or
- Require that layout be determined solely from pointee metadata, or
- Require that layout be determinable from a dropped pointee.[^why]
```
